README.md, before:

# aRchaic

a R package for exploration, clustering and visualization of DNA damage patterns 

<img src="docs/vignette_fig.png" alt="Structure Plot" height="500" width="600">

## Authors

[Kushal K Dey*](http://kkdey.github.io/), [Hussein Al-Asadi
*](https://halasadi.wordpress.com/), [John Novembre](http://jnpopgen.org/), [Matthew Stephens](http://stephenslab.uchicago.edu/)

\*\*co-first authors

## Installation

First and foremost, the user is required to install 

* [python](https://www.python.org/downloads/) 
* [R/RStudio](https://www.rstudio.com/) 

And Python packages,

* [pysam](http://pysam.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html) 
* [pyfaidx](https://pythonhosted.org/pyfaidx/#installation)

**aRchaic** requires R version to be >=3.4. If your R version is lower than that,
please upgrade. 

Upon completion of these steps, start a new R session and install the R dependency libraries.

```
install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("kkdey/CountClust")
devtools::install_github("TaddyLab/maptpx")
```

aRchaic requires the package **Logolas** for visualization. 

If you are using R version (>=3.4), you can install **Logolas** from Github.

```
devtools::install_github("kkdey/Logolas")
```

If you are using R version (>=3.5), you may install **Logolas** from Bioconductor
as well.

```
source("https://bioconductor.org/biocLite.R")
biocLite("Logolas")
```

On completion of the above steps, install the R package **aRchaic**

```
devtools::install_github("kkdey/aRchaic")
```

Finally, load aRchaic into R

```
library(aRchaic)
```

## Tutorial

Get started with a short tutorial [here](https://kkdey.github.io/aRchaic/) 

## Support

* Create a new [issue](https://github.com/kkdey/aRchaic/issues) to report bugs and/or request features.
* Contact Kushal Dey (kkdey@uchicago.edu) or Hussein Al-Asadi (halasadi@uchicago.edu)

Also users are welcome to contribute to the package by submitting pull request. 

## Citation

Al-Asadi, H., Dey, K., Novembre, J. and Stephens, M., 2018. Inference and visualization of DNA damage patterns using a grade of membership model. bioRxiv, p.327684.


## License

Distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

The repository is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but without any warranty; without even the implied warranty of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. Please see LICENSE for more details.

## Acknowledgements

The authors would like to acknowledge Anna Di Rienzo, Choongwon Jeong, Anna Gosling, John Lindo, David Witonsky, Joseph Marcus, John Blischak, Peter Carbonetto and members of Stephens Lab and Novembre Lab for helpful discussions.

Commit message:

Revised package dependencies in DESCRIPTION.

README.md, after:

# aRchaic

a R package for exploration, clustering and visualization of DNA damage patterns 

<img src="docs/vignette_fig.png" alt="Structure Plot" height="500" width="600">

## Authors

[Kushal K Dey*](http://kkdey.github.io/), [Hussein Al-Asadi
*](https://halasadi.wordpress.com/), [John Novembre](http://jnpopgen.org/), [Matthew Stephens](http://stephenslab.uchicago.edu/)

\*\*co-first authors

## Installation

First and foremost, the user is required to install 

* [python](https://www.python.org/downloads/) 
* [R/RStudio](https://www.rstudio.com/) 

And Python packages,

* [pysam](http://pysam.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html) 
* [pyfaidx](https://pythonhosted.org/pyfaidx/#installation)

**aRchaic** requires R version to be >=3.4. If your R version is lower than that,
please upgrade. 

Upon completion of these steps, start a new R session and install the R dependency libraries.

```
install.packages("remotes")
remotes::install_github("kkdey/aRchaic")
```

Now you should be able to load aRchaic into R.

```
library(aRchaic)
```

## Tutorial

Get started with a short tutorial [here](https://kkdey.github.io/aRchaic/) 

## Support

* Create a new [issue](https://github.com/kkdey/aRchaic/issues) to report bugs and/or request features.
* Contact Kushal Dey (kkdey@uchicago.edu) or Hussein Al-Asadi (halasadi@uchicago.edu)

Also users are welcome to contribute to the package by submitting pull request. 

## Citation

Al-Asadi, H., Dey, K., Novembre, J. and Stephens, M., 2018. Inference and visualization of DNA damage patterns using a grade of membership model. bioRxiv, p.327684.


## License

Distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

The repository is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but without any warranty; without even the implied warranty of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. Please see LICENSE for more details.

## Acknowledgements

The authors would like to acknowledge Anna Di Rienzo, Choongwon Jeong, Anna Gosling, John Lindo, David Witonsky, Joseph Marcus, John Blischak, Peter Carbonetto and members of Stephens Lab and Novembre Lab for helpful discussions.
